ANALOGY
CONCEPTS
In verbal analogies, the student is given one pair of
related words. The student must find a pair words
from the given choices that has the same relationship to
the word as the first pair. Analogy questions test your
ability to recognize relationships between words or
ideas and to know when these relationships are
parallel.
How to Read Analogies: The symbol (:) means 'is to'
and the symbol (: :) means 'as'. 
Thus, the analogy, key : lock :: spoon : stir should be read
as key is to lock as spoon is to stir. 
It means the relationship between key and lock is the
same as the relationship between spoon and stir.
Tips for doing Analogies:
1. Try to create a logical relationship between the given
pair of words.
2. Eliminate the options that do not have a clear
relationship to main word.
3. Don’t assume any answer until you’ve read all of the
choices.
4. If the meaning of the given pair of words is
unknown then try to recollect the context in which you
have come across those words.
5. Though you don't know the meanings of given pair
of words, you can still have a chance to find the correct
answer using parts of speech.
e.g: falling (v) : gravitation (n) :: collapse (v) : pressure (n)
Sometimes more than one answer choice will have
same parts of speech. You need to be very careful
because even though the parts of speech of more than
one pair remains same, the words may have different
meaning.
6. Eliminate the word pairs that expresses the same
relationship as the given question but in the opposite
order.
e.g.: eye : see : : hear : ear (incorrect)
        eye : see : : ear : hear (correct) 
The analogy  is an area where, with practice, you can
achieve a very good score. First, you must find the
relationship between the original pair of words. To
help you, listed below are some common types of
analogies.
Some Common Types of Analogies:
1. Part to Whole:
e.g.: poem : stanzas :: play : acts
2. Cause and Effect:
e.g.: joke : laughter :: tragedy : sadness
3. Sameness or Synonyms
e.g.: system : method :: faith : trust
4. Oppositeness or Antonyms
e.g.: negligence : careful :: bravery : cowardice 
5. Measure
e.g.: fahrenheit : temperature :: decibel : sound
6. Variation in Degree: 
e.g.: chukle : laugh :: whimper : cry
7. Thing and what it lacks:
e.g.: atheist : belief :: indigent : money 
8. Study of entity
e.g.: linguistic : language :: human : anthropology - 
9: Function/purpose/use: 
e.g.: knife : cut :: shovel : dig
10. Person and skill /tools/ work place: 
e.g.:author : write : : chef  : cook
11. Qualities or Characteristics:
e.g.: president : leads :: captain : directs
Make a Sentence: Creating a sentence that shows the
connection between the two words is absolutely
essential.
• The key issue in analogy problems is picking the
proper relationship sentence. With analogies, you are
looking for similar relationships, not similar meanings.
To answer analogy questions, you must first figure out
the relationship between the two words in the given
question. Then look for the pair of words among the
answer choices that has the same relationship.
• You can also create your own analogies using the list
of common types given above. Creating your own list
has the advantage of forcing you to think analogously.
You should keep in mind that there must be a
reasonable and necessary connection between given
two words. The connection must be valid, otherwise
there would be no point in making the analogy. 
For example, what type of reasonable connection could
be there between Bird : Algebra ? (no relation)
On the other hand, there is a reasonable connection
between Fish : Salmon since salmon is a type of fish.
• All analogies will have connections that are
reasonable (logical, valid) and necessary or inevitable.
Any choices that fail to meet these criteria should be
rejected. Even if you cannot figure out the connection
between the original pair of words, you can still
improve your chances of picking the correct answer by
eliminating any choices that do not confirm to the
above rule.
3.53
Praxis Groups

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

