ANTONYMS
Antonyms are words that have the opposite meaning
of a given word. In this section, you are given a word
and asked to choose a word, or phrase, which is most
opposite in meaning to that word. When you are doing
the antonym portion of the Campus recruitment tests,
keep in mind the prefixes, suffixes, and roots that you
learned while developing your vocabulary.  While
testing your ability on questions pertaining to
Antonyms, the first thing to be observed is your ability
to grasp the meaning of the given word and to
distinguish between the fine shades of meaning. Unless
you know the meaning of the given words, you will not
be able to find out or choose the exact antonym from
the options given. Mostly antonyms appear in the form
of nouns, verbs and adjectives.
Strategies to Solve Questions Based on Antonyms:
1. Check whether the question word and the opposite
of the word given under the options are in the same
parts of speech.
2. You should have an idea of the roots of the words
and know their meanings. For example, in the word
benefactor, if you know the meaning of bene you will be
able to guess the meaning of the word, and opt for the
best antonym.
3. Look for the best answer and not for the ideal.
Eliminate two or three of the options if they are
nowhere related to the given word.
4. Do not go for an antonym which is too limited or too
broad to be an opposite.
5. When you get confused about the antonym to be
chosen, try to think of how you have heard the word
used before. You may discover a suitable context to
guess the exact antonym.
1. DILAPIDATED
a) ruined 
    b) condemned  
    c) renovated
d) destroyed         e) shabby 
Explanation: Dilapidated means ‘falling apart’;
Therefore options-a and d can be eliminated as they
show intentional actions. The only word which means
making good to look as new is ‘Renovated’. It standout
as the best antonym. Option-b means ‘to disapprove’ so
that is also not suitable.
2. MELODIOUS
a) mellifluous             b) unpleasant          c) spiritual    
d) comfort                   e) indefinite 
Explanation: In this example, the word 'Melodious'
means 'Mellifluous', means pleasant in sound. The
options-c, d and e are irrelevant in this context. The
only antonym is option-b–Unpleasant.
3. PROFUSION 
a) deficiency
b) certainty
c) proliferation
d) largeness        
e) maximum 
Explanation:'Profusion' means excess, surplus, fullness.
So, options-c, d and e can be eliminated. Certainty,
generally means confidence. Deficiency means lack or
shortage. Hence, option-a is correct choice.  
CONCEPTUAL EXAMPLES
1) ABUNDANCE
a) Sufficiency             b) Plenty             c) Resign  
d) Decrease                e) Dearth
Explanation: Abundance means plentiful or in great
quantity. Option-a and b synonymous to abundance.
Option-c, d are irrelevant in the present context. Dearth,
which means scarcity or lack of something, is the
antonym of the given word. Hence, option-e is correct.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5619
2) ABDUCT
a) Release
b) Abbreviate
c) Degrade 
d) Give Up
e) Kidnap
Explanation: The prefix 'ab' generally denotes 'away
from' or 'off'.  For example absent, abnormal, aversion etc.
The suffix 'duct' generally means 'to lead'. For example
conduct, induct etc. Abduct means 'to carry off by force'
or 'lead away by force' or 'kidnap'. Opposite of abduct is
to release, to let go, to give etc. Option-d is not an
appropriate antonym of abduct. Hence, option-a is the
best choice.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5620
3) ABANDON
a) Continue
b) Steal
c) Restoration  
d) Desert
e) Abnormal
Explanation: The root word 'don' gives meaning as 'to
give' or 'to gift'. For example pardon, donation etc.
Abandon means 'to leave completely', 'to give up the
control of', 'discontinue' or 'withdraw from'. Opposite
is to continue or take control of. Hence, option-a is the
correct choice.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5621
4) BOLD
a) Bald      b) Hairless    c) Brave      d)Timid     e) Thick
Explanation: Bold means confident and courageous.
Option-a, b and e are completely irrelevant. Option-c is
synonym of bold. Timid  means lack of courage or
confidence. Hence, it is the correct choice. 
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5623
Login to your online account to ask doubts.
3.40

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

