DATA SUFFICIENCY
CONCEPTS
Purpose of Data sufficiency: 
Here the examiners intention is to check the student's
capability in decision making. One can agree that the
decision making is the sense of checking whether the
data is sufficient or not.
Nature of Questions: You will be given a question
followed with the two statements.
You don’t need to solve the question. You just have to
judge whether given two statements have enough
information to solve the question.
CONCEPTUAL EXAMPLES
Each of the questions below consist of a question and
two statements numbered I and II. You have to decide
whether the data provided in the statements are
sufficient to answer the given question. Read both
the statements and give answer as
a: If the data in statement-I alone is sufficient and the
data in statement-II alone is not sufficient to answer the
question.
b: If the data in statement-II alone is sufficient and the
data in statement-I alone is not sufficient to answer the
question.
c: If the data either in statement-I or in statement-II
alone are sufficient to answer the question.
d: If the data either in statement-I and II together are
not sufficient to answer the questions. And some more
data needed.
e: If the data in both statement-I and II together are
necessary to answer the question.
1) What is the average of p, q and r?
I. r is 25.
II. p + q is 20.
Explanation: To find the average, we need values of p,
q, r. From the given two statements values of p, q, r are
known. Hence, we require both the statement-I and II
to answer the given question. Hence,option-e is correct.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5503
2) Who is youngest among Raju, Vamsi and Rajni?
I. Raju is one year elder to Vamsi.
II. Vamsi age is average age of Raju and Rajni.
Explanation: From statement-II, Vamsi's age is between
the ages of Raju and Rajni.
From statement-I, Raju is one year elder to Vamsi. It
means Rajni will be one year younger to Vamsi.
 From both the statements, we can say, 
∴
Rajni is
youngest among the three. Hence, option-e is correct.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5504
3) What is the value of x?
I. x2+2x –3=0          II. x2+4x – 5=0
Explanation: From statement-I,  x2 + 2x – 3 = 0
x2 + 3x – x – 3 = 0 ⇒ x(x + 3) – 1(x + 3) = 0 ⇒ x = 1 or –3
 From statement-I alone we can't say exact value of 
∴
x.
From statement-II, x2 + 4x – 5 = 0  x2 + 5x – x – 5 = 0
x(x + 5) – 1(x + 5)=0 i.e. x =1 or – 5.
 
∴From statement-I and II, we conclude, x = 1. 
As both the statements together are required to answer
the given question, option-e is correct.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5505
4) Find the area of the square?
I. The side of the square is 7 cm
II. The circumference of the square is 28 cm
Explanation: Area = (side)2 
From statement-I, we know the value of side. Therefore
area can be found.
From statement-II, circumference i.e. 4(side)=28.
From this we can find the value of side. As a result area
can also be found. 
Here, either of the statements-I or II alone are sufficient
to answer the given question. Hence,option-c is correct.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5506
5) What is the cost price of the chair?
I. The selling price of the chair is 324 at profit of 8%.
₹
II. The profit is 12%.
Explanation: 
From statement-I, CP= 100
100+ 8
×324=₹300
 Statement-I alone is sufficient to answer.
∴
Statement-II does not have the enough information to
solve the given question. Hence, option-a is correct.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5507
6) Who is tallest?
I. C is eldest.
II. A is shortest and B is youngest but taller than C.
Explanation: Statement-I alone is not sufficient to
answer. From statement-II, A is shortest. And B is taller
than C. It means B is taller than A and C.  i.e. only
statement -II is sufficient to answer the question. 
Hence, option-b is correct.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5508
7) Is r > s ?
I. r > t
II. at > ar, a < 0.
Explanation: Statement-I and II gave information
about t and r. But not s. So, it is not possible to say
whether r > s or not because of insufficient information
from both the statements.  Hence, option-d is correct.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 5509
Login to your online account to ask doubts.
2.40

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

