READING COMPREHENSION
Reading is a skill which has other sub-skills included in
it. It is not mere recognition of the words, it also
includes being able to understand, comprehend and
respond, if questioned about the text. Many languages
share the same script: Hindi, Punjabi, Telugu, Kannada.
For that matter all European Languages like English,
French, Spanish and German have the same script.
Being able to read a script does not ensure
understanding the script. Another important aspect is
familiarity with the content. If you are not in the habit
of reading, if you are not aware of what’s happening
around you, then even the simplest of scripts will seem
like Greek and Latin. The most important point is
READ, READ and READ.
1. Spend a few minutes a day reading at a faster than
comfortable rate (about 2 to 3 times faster than your
normal speed). Use your hand or an index card to
guide your eyes down the page. Then time yourself
reading a few pages at your normal speed.
2. If you have poor concentration when reading,
practice reading for only 5 to 10 minutes at a time and
gradually increase this time
3. As we read, our eyes move along the line in a series
of jerky movements, stopping at each word. Fast
readers usually take in 3-4 words in each movement
that their eye makes. The more words you can take in
with each movement of the eye, the faster your reading
will be. Try to avoid focusing on every word, but rather
look at groups of 2 to 3 words.
e.g.: The above sentence could be read as: 
Try to avoid/ focusing on every word/ but/ rather look
at/ groups of 2 to 3 words. 
4. Read more! 15 min a day of reading an average size
novel equals 18 books a year at an avg reading speed!
5. Being a voracious reader is just not enough. In
examinations where reading skills are tested, the ability
to read and comprehend fast is needed. Here are some
tips to tackle the reading section. In order to improve
your reading speed, follow these steps.
One of the most effective ways of reading in order to be
able to comprehend quickly is the SQ3R method:
• Scan
• Question
• Read
• Review
• Recite
Scanning provides a rapid overview. Many well
written books follow logical outlines that can orient the
reader to the subject matter.
Questioning is a natural, instinctive, second step that
most winners follow. In the scanning process, certain
questions naturally arise. These should be noted in a
short list of questions to be answered through reading.
The questioning procedure helps the reader stay
focused.
• First, determine the main idea from the title, the first
paragraph, and the last paragraph.
• Second, determine if a large subject is divided into
smaller subjects with some outlining scheme.
• Underline key words or take notes to the side what
the purpose of the paragraph is. i.e. cause, effect,
reason, example, definition, instructions, background
info, etc. Don’t worry if you can’t do that for all and
don’t spend too much time trying to identify each
paragraph.
• Read for Author's Main Idea and Primary Purpose.
• At the end of reading, ask yourself questions like:
What was the passage about? What was author's
motive in writing all this?  
• Don't over read. Skip examples, dates, lengthy
names, any details which can be referred in case
something is asked explicitly.
• Don't go for choices which hold true only for one
part of the author's argument.
• Finally, review as often as necessary to keep focused.
Outlining and note-taking often help.
• Once you start to become an effective reader, you will
find that you are also becoming a faster reader.
With these tips your reading skills are sure to improve.
• Recite the question along with the answer to make
sure they fit in
3.61
Praxis Groups

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

