SENTENCE REARRANGEMENT
CONCEPTS
Sentence Rearrangement as the name itself advocates,
consist of sentences not arranged in a logical sequence.
A choice of arrangement of the sentences is given from
which the candidate has to choose the most logical
sequence which would be the most appropriate for
conveying the message of the passage.
Type of Questions:
Four Sentences: In this type, paragraph consists of four
sentences which are jumbled and the student is
supposed to choose the correct sequence. 
Five Sentences: This type is quite similar to the "four
sentence" except instead of four sentences student has
to rearrange five sentences. 
Six Sentences: This is a typical one of this chapter
where six sentences are given in which first and sixth
sentences are fixed. The student has to rearrange the
four sentences in between the first and sixth. 
Tips to Solve:
• Read as they are: It is a kind of reading which gives
an overall concept to the reader. In this step student has
to tick or write the crucial words to make his
remembrance more effective. He has to have an idea of
passage by this squashed reading technique.
• Finding either starting or concluding sentences
Finding either starting or concluding sentences is also
necessary to get the answer properly. In this finding
procedure students have to keep an eye in the options
too. Therefore finding either starting or concluding
sentences can be derived as technical method of logical
answer.
• Linking sentences: This is a technique of mastering
in jumbled paragraph. In order to get proper linking
sentences students have to identify the main or
supplementary ideas which constitute the message
being conveyed by the paragraph. If a clear picture of
the main paragraph is found, then the link of the
sentences will be come out automatically. Once the link
is found, then obviously the given options will direct
the correct answer.
• Here is the list of words which are used as linking
devices: also, again, as well as, as a rule, besides,
furthermore, generally, in addition, likewise, moreover,
consequently, similarly, to sum up, hence, otherwise,
subsequently, later,  therefore, thus, for example, for
instance, to illustrate, much like, such as, above all, besides,
even though, although,  despite, probably, due to, unless,
whether, until, yet, first of all, to begin with, consequently,
considering, I mean, in other words, as a result, last of all, in
summary, in conclusion.
Abbreviations or Acronyms: If full form and its
abbreviation or acronym are present in two different
sentences, then the sentence containing the full form
will come before the sentence containing abbreviation
or acronym.
Personal and Demonstrative Pronouns: If a sentence
contains a personal or demonstrative pronouns (i.e.
you, your, he, she, it, they, this, that, these, those etc)
without mentioning the person, place or object it is
referring to, the person, place or object must have come
in the previous sentence. 
Checking vocabulary inventiveness
For this process a candidate has to look into the
starting and the concluding words of the sentences that
may have an apparent link. In addition to this students
have to concentrate in some particular conjunction
words that may appear either ending or starting of the
sentences, namely, so, therefore, moreover, meanwhile,
nevertheless,  notwithstanding etc.
CONCEPTUAL EXAMPLES
Rearrange the following sentences (A), (B), (C), (D) in
the proper sequence to form a meaningful paragraph,
then answer the questions given below them.
1) A. In formal speech, syllables are likely to be more
deliberately sounded than in informal speech 
B. Yet dictionary editors have no choice but to deal
with each word as an individual entity. 
C. The pronunciation of words is influenced by the
situation.
D. Further, the pronunciation of a word is affected by
its position in the sentence and by the meaning it
carries.
a) ACBD         b) ACDB       c) ABCD        d) CADB
Explanation: First of all, try to identify the starting and
ending/ concluding sentences. Sentences B, D can not
be the first sentence as they have the linking words like
'yet', 'another' which generally indicates continuation
to its previous sentences. Sentence-A is speaking about
two kinds of pronunciation. But sentence-C has an
introduction about pronunciation. Hence, it forms the
first sentence. Sentence-A, D are continuation for C as
they explain about how the pronunciation is affected. 
Ask doubt with Question Id: 1947
3.77
Praxis Groups

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

