SUBJECT - VERB AGREEMENT
1. All subjects must agree in number and person with
the verb.
e.g.: The students of the primary section are going
on a picnic.
The quality of these mangoes is very good.
2. Two or more singular subjects connected by ‘and’
usually take a verb in the plural.
e.g.: Sheela and Ragini are here.
        Wealth and generosity don’t go together.
3. If two singular nouns refer to the same person or
thing the verb must be singular.
e.g.: My best friend and confidant has come. 
(a confidant is a friend in whom you can confide
your secrets)
The Chairman and Managing Director is going to
address the employees.
4. If two subjects together express one idea, the verb is
singular:
e.g.: Slow and steady wins the race.
        Bread and butter is his only food.
5. Words joined to a singular subject by ‘with, together
with, in addition to, or as well as are parenthetical and so
the verb should be in singular.
e.g.: The house with its contents was insured.
        The price of silver as well as gold has fallen.
6. Two nouns qualified by ‘each’ or ‘every’ even though
connected by ‘and’ require a singular verb.
e.g.: Each senior member was honored.
        Every man and woman was present at the festival.
7. Two or more singular subjects connected by ‘or,
neither….. nor, either…..or’ take a verb in the singular.
e.g.: Neither he nor I was there.
        Either he or I am mistaken.
8. When the subjects joined by ‘or, nor’ are of different
numbers, the verb must be plural and the plural subject
must be placed before the verb.
e.g.: Rana or his brothers have done this.
        Neither the Principal nor the teachers were present.
9. When the subjects joined by ‘or, nor’ are of different
persons, the verb agrees in person with the one
nearest to it.
e.g.: Either he or I am mistaken.
        Neither you nor he is to blame.
10. A singular verb should be used with a collective
noun, when the collection is thought of as one whole. 
A plural verb should be used with a collective noun
when it refers to the individuals who comprise it.
e.g.: The crew was large.
        The crew were taken prisoners.
The council has chosen its president.
The council are divided on the issue of making Aadhar
card mandatory.
11. Some nouns which are plural in form, but singular
in meaning, take a singular verb.
e.g.: The news is true.
Civics is important for people who wish to enter the
civil services.
12. When the plural noun is a proper name for some
single object or some collective unit, the verb should be
singular.
e.g.: The United States has a big army.
         Gulliver’s travels was written by Swift.
13. When a plural noun denotes some specific quantity
or amount considered as a whole, the verb is generally
singular.
e.g.: Ten miles is not a short distance.
         Fifty thousand rupees is a large sum.
14. A common blunder is to leave the Participle without
proper subject.
e.g.: Sitting on a gate, a scorpion stung him. (wrong)
(who was sitting on the gate)
While he was sitting on the gate a scorpion stung him.
(correct)
Being a hot day, I stayed at home. (wrong) 
(who or what is the hot day)
It being a hot day, I stayed at home. (correct)
Correction of Sentences
1. She is going to temple everyday. 
(simple present; so goes)
2. These school children needs books and pencils. (need)
3. When he is playing cricket, he fell down.(was playing)
4. She has completed her graduation last year.
(remove ‘has’)
5. They are living here since 2010. (have been living)
6. When the ambulance came the patient died.(had died)
7. They are having the same car for 10 years. (have had)
8. She will leave for Mumbai tomorrow. (is leaving)
9. We have gone to Chennai last week. (have been to)
10. She is hearing to carnatic music. (listening)
11. She never visited Charminar before.
(had never visited)
12. Your parcel didn’t come yet. (hasn’t)
13) He sleeping while his wife cleaning the house.
(was sleeping …… was cleaning)
14. I am liking mangoes. (like)
15. He is always forgetting my phone number. (forgets)
3.13
Praxis Groups

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

 CONJUNCTION
• A conjunction is a word which merely joins together
words or sentences, they do no other work.
e.g.: She and her friends are visiting us.
        He came early but couldn’t complete the work.
• Some conjunctions are single and some conjunctions
are used in pairs. Some of these are: 
either – or, neither – nor, not only – but also, though – yet,
whether – or etc. these conjunctions which are used in
pairs are called Correlative Conjunctions or just
Correlatives.
• Some compound expressions are also used as
conjunctions and these are called compound
conjunctions. Some of these are: 
even if,  as though,  as well as,  as if,  as soon as,  so that, 
in order that etc.
Conjunctions are divided into two classes:
Coordinating and Subordinating.
• Coordinating Conjunctions bring together two
independent statements or two statements of equal rank
or importance. The main coordinating conjunctions are:
and,  but,  or,  nor,  also,  either-or,  neither-nor.
e.g.: He is slow but steady.
        The thieves broke the door and entered the house.
You must return the book tomorrow or pay the fine.
• Subordinating conjunctions bring together two
statements or clauses, one of which is dependent on the
other. The chief  subordinating conjunctions are:
after, because, if, that, though, although, till, before, unless,
as, when, where, while.
e.g.: You will pass if you work hard.
        He didn’t speak up because he was afraid.
        Though he was ill, he attended the meeting.
        He came after I had left.
Subordinating conjunctions may be classified according
to meaning or function:
1. Time:
e.g.: I knew him before he came here.
        I waited till the train arrived.
2. Cause or reason:
e.g.: Since you say so I must believe it.
        He did not come because you did not call him.
3. Purpose:
e.g.: We eat that we may live.
        He deserved the prize for he had worked hard.
4. Result or consequence:
e.g.: He was rude so he was punished.
5. Condition:
e.g.: Unless you bring your Passport, the tickets cannot
be booked.
If you had asked me earlier, I could have helped you.
6. Comparison:
e.g.: She is as tall as her sister.
        He is richer than I am.
7. Concession: For example,
Although he worked hard, he could not get a state  rank.
Though he is strong, he is unable to do this work.
Troublesome Rules and Confusing Areas
1. The most common mistake is the placement of the
conjunction. The conjunction should be placed just
before the clause it introduces.
e.g.: It is raining because he has not come. (incorrect)
        He has not come because it is raining. (correct)
2. 'Scarcely' is followed by 'when'.
e.g.: Scarcely had we entered the house when it
started raining.
3. 'No sooner' is followed by 'than'.
e.g.: No sooner had she got her results than she got a job.
4. 'Neither' is followed by 'nor'.
e.g.: He is neither intelligent nor hardworking.
5. While using 'not only . . . but also', the verb must
agree with the noun or pronoun mentioned second.
e.g.: Not only the students but the teacher were also
injured. (incorrect)
Not only the students but the teacher was also injured.
(correct)
Correction of Errors
1. He is sincere and also hardworking.
(not only - but also)
2. She asked me whether I had a pen or not. 
(‘or not’ can be omitted)
3. He did not come or sent a message. (neither …… nor)
4. He not only broke the glass, but threw it away. 
(not only…. but also)
5. Both he and I contributed to the fund. (no error)
6. No sooner had the bell rung then the students ran
out. (replace ‘then’ with ‘than’)
7. She is taller as her sister. (as tall as)
8. He worked hard and could not get a state rank. (you
can use ‘but’ instead of 'and', or start the sentence with
‘Although’)
9. There is a bus strike because she is not coming.
(she is not coming because there is a bus strike)
10. He will return the money on the 1st or 2nd.
(He will return the money either on 1st or 2nd)
Login to your online account to ask doubts.
3.22

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

