STATEMENTS AND ARGUMENTS
CONCEPTS
In this type of questions, the statement deals with all
general aspects of day to day life which may include
socio economic, scientific, political issues etc. A
statement is followed by two arguments. One supports
the statement by pointing out the positive aspects and
the other deny the statement by pointing out it's
negative impact. You have to analyze given statement,
arguments and decide which of the arguments strongly
supports the statement by giving an appropriate
opinion on the subject. Read the given arguments in
the question and discard them if they are ambiguous,
disproportionate, irrelevant, comparative, simplistic.
1) Ambiguous: If the given arguments does not have a
clear reason or if it is not contextual or not expressing
its opinion whether supporting or not. Such  an
argument should be discarded. 
2) Disproportionate: If the given arguments are too
large or too small in comparison with given statements.
This kind of arguments can be discarded.
3) Irrelevant: If the given arguments are irrelevant to
the context of the given statements, they can be
discarded.
4) Comparative: If the argument do not state the
reasons for why  the proposed action is implemented
and its consequences. Such arguments can be
discarded.
5) Simplistic: If the given arguments do not have
sufficient information to support the given statements,
they cannot be considered.
CONCEPTUAL EXAMPLES
Direction: Each of the following examples consists of a
statement followed by two arguments (I) and (II). Give
your answer as,
a: if only argument-(I) is strong.
b: if only argument-(II) is strong.
c: if either argument-(I) or (II) is strong.
d: if neither of the arguments is strong. 
e: if both the arguments are strong.
1) Statement: Should number of holidays be increased
to private employees?
Arguments: 
I. Yes, because employee satisfaction will be better.
II. No, it will lead to decreased productivity of private
organizations.
Explanation:
 Though employee satisfaction is
important but this will adversely affect the
productivity and revenue of the organization. So the
argument-(I) does not hold strong. Hence, only
argument-(II) is strong. 
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8322
2) Statement: Should taxes on air conditioners be
further increased?
Arguments: 
I. Yes, air conditioner is a luxury item and rich people
can only buy them.
II. No, air conditioners are bought by financially
backward sector also.
Explanation: Generally, taxes on any commodities or
goods doesn't depend on the financial position of the
individuals so, both the arguments does not hold
strong. Hence, option-d is correct choice.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8323
3) Statement: Should Indian software professionals
who are working abroad be called back?
Arguments: 
I. Yes, they must serve the mother land first and forget
about high pay scales or facilities etc.
II. No, we have adequate talent here, let them stay
according to their will and wish.
Explanation: The demands of an individual are as
important as the demands of motherland. So,
argument-(I) is not strong. Argument-(II) is weak
because of its complacent attitude. Hence, option-d is
correct choice.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8324
4) Statement: Should education to women be made
free in India?
Arguments: 
I. No, this will weaken our present social structure. 
II. Yes, this is the only way to bring back glory to
Indian woman hood.
Explanation: Argument-(I) is strong. It is links,
providing free education to women with weakening of
social structure, which is not sensible. Argument-(II)
also weak because of the term 'only'. 
Hence, option-d is correct choice.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8325
Login to your online account to ask doubts.
2.56

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

