SYNONYMS
A synonym is a word or expression accepted as a
figurative or a symbolic substitute for another word or
expression. It has the same or almost the same meaning
as that of another word in the same language.
English being the language with the largest number of
words, it has many synonyms. A strong grasp of
words, their synonyms (meanings) and antonyms
(opposites) goes a long way towards enhancing your
ability to comprehend and express clearly.
e.g.: The words see, look, view, watch, glance etc more or
less have the same meaning so they are synonyms.
They may however differ slightly in degree of
abstraction.
▪ Type: 1
1. Agenda
a) Assignment  b) Schedule   c) Correction  d) Annexure
Explanation: Agenda means organized plan for matters
to be attended to during a meeting. In this context,
schedule is nearest in meaning though it isn’t a clear
meaning of agenda. So option-b is correct choice.
2. Effort
a) Attempt          b) Create       c) Wonder     d) Overtake
Explanation: Effort is an action intended to do or
accomplish something. So option-a is correct.
▪ Type: 2
Four pairs of words are given below. Each pair consists
of two words which have more or less similar meaning.
Find the pair which have opposite meanings.
1. a. Induce/ Coax 
    
b. Fatal/ Deadly 
    c. Disparate/ Alike 
    
d. Abettor/ Thief
Explanation: Except option-c, all other pair of words
have more or less similar meaning. Hence, option-c is
correct choice.
2. a. Authentic/ Genuine
b. Genius/ Aptitude 
    c. Ghastly/ Pretty
d. Gruesome/ Grim
Explanation: Ghastly means horrifying and pretty
means attractive. Hence, option-c is correct choice.
▪ Type: 3
Find the appropriate synonym of the word in bold in
the below sentence.
1. He changed his statement so many times that entire
his message became ambiguous.
 a) clear         b) impressive    c) unimpressive   d) unclear
 The correct answer is (d) unclear.
2. There was crazy pandemonium as people were
trying to leave the rock concert.
a) Silence     b) craziness       c) chaos                 d) order  
The correct answer is (c) chaos.
CONCEPTUAL EXAMPLES
In each of the sentences, one word is given in bold
and four options are given. Select the word or phrase
nearest in meaning to the word given in bold.
1. The engineers subjected the engine to exhaustive
tests.
a) Complicated 
b) Thorough 
c) Exclusive 
d) Compulsory
Explanation: Exhaustive means thorough, complete or
in-depth. Hence, option-b is synonym of exhaustive.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8432
2. The inspector was a vigilant man.
a) Intelligent    b) Ambitious      c) Watchful      d) Smart
Explanation: The root word 'vigi' means watchful,
wakeful or alert. For example, vigilant, invigilation,
surveillance, reveille etc. Vigilant means careful or
watchful. Hence, option-c is correct choice.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8433
3. The Professor is one of the most erudite in our
college.
a) Boring     b) Pleasant      c) Learned       d) Demanding
Explanation: Erudite means well educated or cultured. 
Learned is the synonym of erudite. 
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8434
4. The world leader are trying to prevent the
proliferation of nuclear weapons.
a) Use          b) Increase      c) Expansion    d) Extension
Explanation:
 Proliferation 
means rapid increase.
Option-b is the best suitable synonym for proliferation
than option-c and d.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8435
5. The tribunal’s order may finally nudge the two
warring groups to come to an amicable solution.
a) Just          b) Appropriate      c) Durable      d) Friendly
Explanation: The prefix 'am' generally denotes
friendly, casual or lovable. For example, amiable,
amateur, amicable etc. Amicable means friendly,
peaceful, polite etc. Hence, option-d is correct choice.
Durable means long-lasting or strong.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8436
6. The poor old man seems famished.
a) Exhausted      b) Peevish      c) Hungry       d) Relaxed
Explanation: Famished means being extremely hungry.
For example, 'After such a long walk in the mountains,
they were tired and famished for food and sleep'.
Ask doubt with Question Id: 8437
Login to your online account to ask doubts.
3.50

 E-BOOK                
Quantitative Aptitude
CLICK HERE
Data Interpretation
CLICK HERE
Logical Reasoning
CLICK HERE
Verbal Ability
CLICK HERE
All Subjects
CLICK HERE
(OR)
 PRINTED BOOK                                 
Purchase at Following e-Commerce sites 
         
            
visit: https://www.campusrecruitment.co.in/download.html

